[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> What makes people
truly fulfilled?
Is it love, family, success,
or is it finding out
who you really are--
what you are truly made of--
so you know your purpose here
on Earth and your connection
to the universe.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
We exist as physical beings
in a physical reality,
while our mind is in
constant communication
with unseen forces
and unknown worlds.
We are the visible part
of a potentially infinite
invisible realm.
How do the two worlds--
mind and matter-- coexist,
collide, and interact?
>> Because the energy
is all around us,
and energy is all connected to
all different types of energy,
you can communicate with all
types of different things.
>> And swap places.
>> In your head, you
just need to think,
please may I turn my energy
on, or anything like that--
a trigger of energy.
And then just turn it on.
>> And to Joseph.
>> It's quite a warm
sensation inside your body.
It's quite tingly.
And then your subconscious
mind kind of realizes it.
>> As a kid, I met
him down an alleyway.
And ever since we've
been playing in my head,
or somewhere else.
>> But he speaks energy.
He doesn't speak our language.
>> Like many children, when
I was young, I was very,
very sensitive.
Even at the age of
five, I realized
I could perceive
the subtle energy.
I would look at someone,
and I would see the energy
around them.
I could feel the emotions--
what they were going through.
I would put my hand up, and
I could hear their thoughts
sometimes.
That got me on a journey
of discovery and research
in the field of consciousness--
how consciousness works
in the physical world,
and how we can answer
some of these questions.
For example, when we sense
the presence of someone
but there's no one there,
what are we tapping into?
What are we coming
in contact with?
How can we perceive an event
before it happens, or remotely,
at a distance?
Is it possible to change the
chemistry of your body, or even
your DNA?
How is it that you can
move a physical object
without any contact with
this physical object,
or use your consciousness to
see without your physical eyes?
>> The rain was tapping and
the windows and the wind was
banging.
>> These are the phenomena
that we're exploring here,
with a new scientific approach
that could potentially explain
it all.
And it turns out
that this field,
that we call parapsychology,
is not only widespread
but it is universal.
>> I have about 100 articles
published in journals.
And each one of those usually
reports between one to five
or six experiments--
so somewhere in the number
of hundreds of experiments.
In terms of people involved, a
few thousand people, perhaps.
>> So I've studied probably
numbering in the hundreds
of cases.
I've captured I don't know
how many dozens, or hundreds
of what we call EVPs of
recordings of voices.
>> There are actually many
credible institutions around
the world that have dedicated
many years of research in this
field of psi phenomena, or
what we call parapsychology.
There are programs
in the government
that ran for over 20
years, with millions
of dollars in funding--
using psychic
abilities, for example,
to spy on the
foreign government.
>> We know for a fact that the
Russians were involved in this.
We know for a fact that the
Chinese were and are probably
still involved.
>> The United States government
and several other countries are
more open minded to this.
Russia comes to mind.
>> The Japanese
were very involved.
In fact, Sony Corporation had
a long, ongoing parapsychology
program.
>> We know our own CIA had been
experimenting in psychic tests
and abilities and
projects like MK-Ultra.
>> The Israelis had an
interest in it, and may still.
>> >> It's very
well established.
>> If these credible
institutions and governments
around the world are dedicating
so much research and funding
into this field, you would
think there is something there.
>> In graduate
school, in about 1970,
I saw a banner on the wall that
said, learn how to meditate.
And I found out
that I could debug
the software I was writing
in my nuclear physics studies
in a meditation state
much more accurately
and quicker than I
could if I were actually
looking at the printouts.
The lines that had
errors in them were red.
The others were black.
And that kind of
crashed my reality.
Up until that time,
like most physicists,
I believed that if you
couldn't measure it,
then it didn't exist.
So I would do
experiments, in that
I could have one
of these effects
and then change a variable--
and then do it again.
And then change that variable
a little more, and do it again.
From consciousness, your intent
can modify future probability.
It can modify what happens
in the physical world, which
means that consciousness
is the fundamental thing
and the physical world is a
derivative of consciousness.
So I knew that consciousness
theory should also
contain physics theory.
>> I finished my neurosurgical
training at Duke, in 1987,
and then I started work
at Harvard Medical School,
after doing a fellowship in
cerebrovascular neurosurgery--
all along thinking I understood
something about brain, mind,
and consciousness.
But that, of course,
was the tremendous gift
of my near-death experience, is
finding out that what I thought
was a world view that we just
assumed to be true is actually
false--
that consciousness
is primordial.
All of this emergent
reality basically
emerges from consciousness.
And it opens the door
to a tremendous amount
of understanding
about consciousness
and the mind and the power
that human beings have
over their unfolding reality.
>> If consciousness
is fundamental,
where does the physical world
end and consciousness begin?
>> The physical world is a
product of the consciousness
world.
One is within the other.
It's not an either/or.
It's all one thing.
>> It isn't as though
there's a physical world
and there's a mental world.
There's only one world.
It's all consciousness.
It's not just
localized in there.
It's everywhere.
And it's also not in space,
and it's not in time.
It's somehow before
space and time.
That's what we mean
by fundamental.
Consciousness is a
kind of a substance--
a proto substance, perhaps--
which is usually in a
primordial refined state,
that doesn't even appear
to be matter or energy yet.
But from that can
emerge what we start
seeing as the physical world.
Just like ice can take
on different phases,
maybe we're talking
about something
like consciousness, which
has different phases.
So if consciousness
is a continuum,
then some forms of consciousness
can appear to be hard matter.
>> Physicists of the 20th
century, in 1920 and 1930,
pondered this quite a lot, and
concluded that consciousness
must be there--
even there was no direct
way of detecting it.
We could only see
its physical effects.
Consciousness as a
whole can be described
by the quantum attribute.
It's just that the
quantum attribute does not
follow Newton's laws.
It's not physical.
It's an entirely different
part of the description
of matter in the universe.
>> If the physical world
exists within consciousness,
how come we can see
one and not the other?
>> We see physical reality, and
we think that we are physical
bodies walking around in
this physical reality.
What we are is consciousness.
We are pieces of
consciousness playing
avatars in a virtual
reality game called
this physical world.
So a conscious comes
here with no memory.
So when it logs onto its avatar,
that avatar is all it knows.
So all of its
experience is experience
with that avatar, with that
fetus, with that newborn.
This is an apple.
This is Mama, you know?
This is the door.
This is my house.
It just learns how to
interpret the data.
What's really happening
is that the computer
is sending this individual unit
of consciousness a data stream.
That's how reality is created.
>> I do believe we
live in a virtual game.
>> But I don't necessarily
believe that we live
in a simulation.
>> Yes, I do.
>> No.
>> I don't know.
I mean, I don't think simulation
in the sense that every--
it's like giant video game.
>> I don't necessarily believe
we live in a computer that
somebody else created.
>> But I feel like if that was
the case, then there would be,
like, technological
glitches in the sky.
>> When I think about
simulations, or the matrix,
I believe we do.
>> We probably thought up this
whole construct before we came
here and decided, we're going to
go in, and we're going to play
this game.
And here are the rules.
And we're going to
go deep into it.
And we're going to completely
forget that we made this game.
>> I think we are the ones
that are running the show.
>> I don't know who's
running the show,
but I can tell you at times,
I think it's a shit show--
complete shit show.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The waves that describe
matter are basically spherical
and surround the matter.
But consciousness waves, which
exists in the same quantum
space, are now spiraling.
Let's focus on the
spin attribute,
because is an attribute
that is shared
most intensely with the
overall structuring of matter
in the universe.
My body has a whole lot of
protons and electrons in it.
And those produce a joint
wave of great complexity,
that's describing my anatomy.
Can you imagine that description
of spin in the universe
starts with a global spin
of the universe, which then
restructures in more
local spins, which have
a memory of the initial global.
We see all the
galaxies rotating.
And the stars in the
galaxies are all rotating.
The planets around the
stars, like our Earth,
is rotating once every 24 hours.
And so on.
Some of that rotation is a
memory of the initial rotation.
Therefore, the
universe is imbued
with this enormous description
of rotation, from atomic matter
scales to the global scales of
galaxies and their clusterings
and voids in the
overall structuring
of matter in our universe.
Consciousness waves do
share this attribute
of spinning and rotating.
And our minds can begin
to interact with this.
>> If the universe is based on
spin and consciousness waves
and can connect two minds,
how would we demonstrate that
in real life?
>> I was at Fort Meade,
working as a Mideast analyst.
What I didn't know
is I lived next door
to the operations officer
and training officer
for the remote viewing unit.
They invited me over to
their offices and sat me down
and said, well, what we do
here is collect intelligence
against foreign threats using
a parapsychology discipline
called remote viewing.
We essentially want to invite
you to become a psychic spy.
The US intelligence
community had
been following what the Russians
were up to, and the Soviets,
and discovered
they were pursuing
parapsychology pursuits.
And so the CIA was
obligated to check this out.
And at a certain point, they
were having such good success
that the CIA said, we
ought to be using it
against the Russians.
At that point, then
it went operational,
and they started
collecting intelligence
against the Russians
using remote viewing--
and the Chinese and a
bunch of other people.
A viewer who is well trained
and has a lot of experience
produces information
that is clearly
remote viewing in origin--
this Cooley psyche, if
you will, in origin,
roughly 70% of the time.
>> Because of the
Soviet aggression,
I have asked the United
States Senate to defer further
consideration of
the SALT II Treaty.
>> In the '70s, when Jimmy
Carter was president,
they were trying to figure
out how to base these missiles
so that the Soviets couldn't
take out our missile systems.
[ROCKET BLAST]
So they built this
racetrack plant-- kind
of a shell game deal, where you
had a bunch of these shelters
out in the desert.
And you'd shuttle the missile
randomly between the shelters.
And that would
make it practically
impossible for the Soviets
to actually hit that missile.
The problem was,
we had to find out
if there was a way that the
Soviets could beat the system.
And so the SRI--
Stanford Research
Institute folks--
did a study.
And they were able to
identify 100% of the time
where the missile would be.
And that information
was provided to Carter,
and Carter canceled
the basing plan--
because it became obvious that
there was a way of beating it.
>> I directed that no high
technology or other strategic
items will be licensed for
sale to the Soviet Union until
further notice.
>> It did affect policy.
It did affect the high-level
government decision.
And there is actually a
letter from John Warner
that confirms this.
>> If there is such a
thing as a psychic spy,
I was curious to learn how the
soldiers may have been trained
to spy on the Russians.
Actress, producer, and
inspirational speaker Rachele
Brooke Smith, who is well
familiar with mind-body work,
was fascinated by the subject
and decided to give it a try.
>> So Paul--
>> Hello.
>> --good to see you again.
>> Thank you.
>> We saw each other
at that conference.
When I met you, I
thought, Rachele
would be fascinated
by the remote viewing.
>> I am.
I'm very fascinated.
I'm very excited to learn.
I believe so much in, I guess,
all of our superhuman abilities
that we have, that are untapped.
And I am on such a path to
discover those and strengthen
those and share them.
So yeah, I couldn't
be more excited.
>> Interesting the term
you used is superhuman.
I like to think that
it's normal human--
>> I love that, yeah.
>> --that our society has
recognized the fact that this
is part of normality.
So remote viewing is
an interesting thing.
It's a way of focusing
your subconscious mind.
Your subconscious
mind knows the answer.
It's your conscious
awareness that doesn't.
And so this source will
focus your subconscious mind.
But then, as you're going
to write this stuff down,
that's a way of bringing that
into your conscious awareness,
to try to get your
subconscious talking
to your conscious awareness.
I've tried to narrow down
the very core elements,
to give you at least a flavor
of how remote viewing works.
>> I would love to try.
>> It's like a crash course.
>> Yeah, right.
>> It's a crash course.
Every molecule of every atom
that's here, we have over here.
>> After a few hours of
intense training with Paul,
Rachele felt ready
for the next step.
>> What we're going to do
is called it an outbounder
experiment.
So Caroline and a
couple other folks
will pick a target
outside of here,
where we won't be able
to know what it is.
Then they will go
to that target,
and they will interact
with it as best they can.
Maybe they can touch it,
or feel it, or smell it,
or ride around that,
whatever it is.
Meanwhile, we'll be back here.
You're going to go
find them, consciously.
You're going to send
your consciousness there
to find where they are, and then
you'll report on the location
where they're at.
And if you pick up on it,
you'll report on the things
that they're doing.
>> So just to clarify, you
don't know where we're going?
>> No, I have no idea.
So are you ready?
>> I'm ready.
Are you ready?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So, Rachele, what you're
going to do is you're going
to direct your consciousness
to the location where Caroline,
Evan, and Dylan have gone.
And you're going to attempt
to perceive and describe
the setting that they're in.
The interesting things
are hard to see.
Generally, the things
there are to experience,
kind of pay attention
to what they're--
don't focus in on
what they're doing.
But if something happens
that attracts your attention,
make note of that.
And you're going to be
verbalizing this as you go.
You're going to be writing
down the impressions you get.
And you're going
to be sketching.
So to get that started,
I want you to write down,
Caroline location.
Just start kind of
perceiving and describing,
in descriptive kind of terms,
what you were experiencing.
>> I see laughter.
>> OK.
So you hear laughing sounds.
>> I hear laughing sounds.
>> Yeah?
Just put down laughing.
That's fine.
>> OK.
I'm asked if I like
to see black lines.
Something red-- yeah,
a feeling of red.
But I feel like Caroline
is holding something.
>> OK.
Probably just put that down.
>> It feels like it's black--
like a black feeling.
>> How does it feel?
Dense.
Does it have a texture to it?
It was as rough.
Like, smooth, but rough.
I know it sounds weird.
>> OK.
Just place your
point of view above,
and see if you get
anything interesting
from that perspective.
>> Hmm.
>> Try and take care
of a bird's eye view.
>> I'm seeing mountains and red.
Like, you're having some
experience with like a red--
and I don't want
to see him fall,
but like a circular red
thing, and then lots of it.
And I can't tell
really if it's Caroline
or that there's like a black--
it's like someone
is holding something
that is black and, like, solid.
And something hot-- like whether
it's a hot drink, or something
that's hot, that's liquid.
I'm going to write
Starbucks on this side.
I don't know why I keep
thinking of Starbucks,
but it's coming up for me.
I wrote it down.
My mind keeps
going to Starbucks.
[LAUGHS]
>> Yeah, OK.
So you wrote it down.
You can let it go.
>> OK, let it go, yep.
>> Yeah.
It doesn't feel
like there's noise.
It's just like noise going on.
For some reason,
I'm seeing a chain
that lay Christmas lights.
Yeah, decorative lights, yeah.
If the universe can
connect two minds,
I thought it would be
interesting to try something
different with this
remote-viewing experiment.
I attempted to block
Rachel's consciousness
from viewing our location.
I'm just kind of going back
to what I know, you know?
That sounds like a
good place to end.
So go ahead and write them down.
So gather up your pages.
OK.
And we will head out.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Oh my gosh, this
is blowing my mind.
Like, this is insane.
Lights-- everyone
put down lights.
And I really thought,
there's Christmas lights.
And it's a declarative
lights in the front,
and a whole building is a
structure that's unleveled.
Like, I am mind blown right now.
>> Let's go check it out.
>> Oh my God.
Really, I can't believe it.
I literally can't believe it.
>> So what happened?
>> Well, first of all, one of
the biggest things I picked up
on was decorative lights.
Like, I literally wrote
like Christmas lights,
decorative, lights.
And that's--
>> That's a Christmas tree.
- That's a Christmas tree.
>> And right here you can see,
I wrote, lights, Christmas,
decorative.
>> The first thing I did
is I walked all the way
to the Christmas tree.
>> I kept seeing this
kind of reddish color--
and obviously, like
all the buildings--
>> Are red.
[LAUGHS]
>> Amazing.
>> But I also said,
remember the circular thing,
it's the carousel.
So I said, there's
this red feeling,
that's like almost like a
circular feeling, that is that.
>> So then I came this way.
>> OK.
>> I was holding on to
this thing and looking up
to the Christmas tree.
>> I said, gray and black bars.
>> And then we saw this.
We were just so curious, like
what you were thinking about.
>> I remember I said as
well, I talked about noise
and kids' laughter and playing.
I'm literally--
I'm so mindblown.
How did I get this right?
>> So then what else did
you do while you were here?
>> So I came this way, and I
touched these bars like this.
>> See, and I kept
seeing the bars.
>> And I did this.
>> And again, just the fact that
I said, Caroline holding black,
dense, rough structures.
And then later, I even
drew bars down here.
Like, I drew black bars.
And I kept feeling
and sensing that.
At one point, I came
up with Starbucks.
And I was like, nope, I'm going
to write that on the left side.
I want to get rid of that.
And over here on the next page,
you can see, I wrote Starbucks.
Are there Starbucks
involved I don't know about?
>> Yes.
>> No way.
You guys got a Starbucks?
>> Yes.
>> I should have warned you--
don't take any side trips.
She said, there's a
hot liquid involved.
So then that led to
the Starbucks thing.
And I'm thinking, oh, crud,
did they stop at Starbucks?
[LAUGHTER]
I told them not to do that.
Towards the end of the process--
they say the last
five minutes or so--
did you feel like
you were having
any difference in
your experience
and your perceptions?
Were they stronger?
Were they weaker?
>> All I know is that there was
a specific point when I felt
like, that's it.
There's no more words.
For a long time, it
just kept coming up
and coming up and coming up.
And then there was
definitely a certain point
where I didn't have any more.
You know what I mean?
There was just no more.
>> That validates that
she was at the target.
Does that make sense?
>> It shows that there's a
boundary condition that you can
interrupt the process with,
which shows there is a process
to be interrupted.
>> Exactly.
This was a crash course
in just a few hours.
And you have never
been here before.
What did you learn
about yourself?
>> I think it just
reconfirmed, for me,
the belief that we have so much
more capabilities than we think
we do, you know?
And I think, if you
can have an open mind
and learn and try
new things, who knows
what you'll be capable of?
Especially after this
experience, if we could all
live just in more curiosity--
not trying so hard,
but just being
curious about life and
about our abilities,
I feel like we could achieve
so much more-- as well
as just experience and
enjoy life so much more.
>> When the CIA
declassified the program,
they conveniently left out
all of the assessments from
the people who
used our material.
So it's almost like
they didn't want people
to know how successful it was.
>> Two minds can be
telepathically connected.
There is a path of coherence
with this spinning attribute
of consciousness, that's
joining the two minds.
These quantum waves
describing the structure
of my hand and this couch
and your body and the tree
on the other side of the room--
all of these waves are
standing, describing
the physical structure
of a body, which
will remain fixed
in the universe
according to Newton's
laws for physical matter.
>>Two physical particles can
share properties at a distance,
through entanglement.
Now everyone is plugged
into the same field.
So if consciousness
waves are spiraling,
they carry the same pattern
as the larger, unified field.
They become coherent.
And through entanglement, the
consciousness of one person
could become entangled with
that of another, at a distance.
[MUSIC PLAYING]